2025-04 release notes.

* The NGC catalog now includes 'IC' and 'PGC' items.
  The original NGC list did not include dimmer objects.
  The IC and PGC lists extend to lower magnitudes.
  You will need to rename or purge your existing data/ngc.json cache file if it exists.
  
* Standardised NGC catalog references to just using the Pandas dataframe.
  NGC Dictionary loaded from the json data file is now ONLY needed 
  to build the initial dataframe. This removes a large dictionary 
  from memory.
  
* RPi 5B and CM4 support more firm now.

* Added cache copies of constellationship.fab and de421.bsp datafiles to the data directory.
  constellationship.fab is nolonger available directly from stellarium's github page, it looks 
  like stellarium has evolved onto a different solution. Pilomar uses the constellation features 
  of Skyfield which still expect the constellationship.fab file. As a temporary solution I've 
  included a cached copy of the old constellationship.fab file in this repository.
  The planetary ephemera file is also now included in the repository because sometimes the 
  online source does not succeed.
  
* When running on RPi3B there can now be some tuning actions to improve performance.
  32bit O/S on 3B hardware is at the lower limit of supporting the pilomar software.

* Pimoroni Tiny2350 is supported.
  This is the successor to the Tiny2040 microcontroller.
  This has better capacity and performance.
  It is plug-in compatible with the Tiny2040, but the new code
  takes some advantages of the newer processor.
  
* Memory and CPU monitoring added.
  The observation dashboard now includes some measures of 
  memory and CPU performance to help with tuning/development.

* Improved support for alternative locales. 
  The original version needed en_US type languages and UTF-8 character sets.
  This version is now more tolerant of European languages and 7bit character sets.

* Initial support for non UTC local timezones.
  The program still operates internally with UTC dates and times.
  However you can now select your local timezone within the program.
  All dates/times show which timezone is being used when displaying.
  Internal messages and log messages will always show UTC timestamps.
  Statistics, Dashboard and status displays can now show local timezone.
  You can switch between UTC and LOCAL timezone with the 'u' key during an observation
  or by editing the parameter file.

* Further configuration options moved from hardcoding into parameter file.

* Default RPi UART port can now be overridden if needed.
  The program chooses the most likely portname based upon the RPi model.
  If you need an alternative UART port you can now set it in the parameter file
  with the UARTOverride parameter.

* Performance improvements when generating tracking target images.
  Star locations are now cached and rotated based upon the system clock.
  This saves creating many hundreds of temporary skyfield targets each time 
  the preview image or tracking maps are generated.  
  
* Tracking can now be performed against a larger star map.
  Previously the generated star map was the same size as the camera image.
  Now the star map can be larger so that larger drift errors can be handled.
  This means the tracking calculation can now compare the live image with a wider 
  area of the sky to improve the chances of finding a match.
  The calculation can also average the drift result across multiple comparisons.

* Tracking configuration moved to own submenu.

* You can now set your Home Location from within the program.
  You nolonger have to edit the parameter file separately.
  This means that values can be error-checked. 
  You can store multiple Home Locations in the parameter file. 
  You can select between them if you want to observe from several 
  locations.

* Target selection includes a 'Suggest target' option.
  This runs through the available catalogs to list larger/brighter 
  objects which should be visible. The list of suggested targets
  is valid for 2 hours, then will be automatically recalculated.
  NOTE: On a 32bit O/S this can be quite slow to complete.
  
* Some unused RPi GPIO pins used for PCB version identification.
  Preparation for future PCB revision.
  The PCB can use these pins to identify its capabilities.  
  
* Fixed issue with 360 and 0 degree azimuth confusion with GOTO commands.  

* Motor menu allows you to switch between common motor speed settings.
  Slow, Medium, Fast and Turbo. 
  (Turbo experimental is for RP2350 based systems - some development still needed.)
    
* Various comments and error messages improved.  
  Eg: SlewEnabled and OptimiseMoves parameter warnings are smaller now.
  
* Tuning overlay can be generated.
  This generates a simplified version of the 'preview' image for the current target.
  It is saved as .PNG format with a transparent background. 
  This can be used in image editors to add a transparent layer on top of 
  processed images to mark the approximate location of key objects.
  
* Microstepping submenu offers current settings and explains their effect.  

* Initial version of observation scheduling.
  You can now construct, save, load schedules for 
  observations. This allows you to list a set of targets 
  which Pi-lomar will then run through in sequence.
  See "Observation schedule menu".
  Observation rules are simplistic at the moment. You control the sequence, exposure time and number of photos.

* Further cleaning of unused methods.

* Removed some unnecessary log messages.

* Multiple changes within libraries to support above features.
  Refactoring the code to separate out more classes into separate files.

CAMERA --------------------------
* Further developments of pilomarfits.py to improve image capture
  in FITS format. 
  Including initial support for EXIF and FITS tags.
  The camera can add observation data tags to image files.
  ImagePrivacy parameter controls if identifying information is
  written to EXIF & FITS tags by pilomarfits.py routine.
  JPG images are 'normalised' which increases the chance of getting 
  an image even if the exposure is significantly out.
  Currently EXIF tags are ONLY available if you are using pilomarfits.py.
  
* livepreview option added for 64bit operating systems.
  This is a tool to help with focusing the camera lens.
  You can now select live preview from the menu.
  It opens the camera in preview mode to give interactive 
  feedback as you tune the focus.
  
* You can now select the focal length of the lens from the menu.
  (6,16,25,35 & 50mm lenses available)
  Requires restart to propogate parameters after changing.
  
* /light/BatchData_...json file generated at end of each observation.
  Lists light images captured and some control information.
  Useful to post-process images.
  
MICROCONTROLLER -----------------
* the /circuitpython folder is now divided into subfolders for each of
  the supported microcontrollers.
  - Currently 
      /circuitpython/tiny2040
	  /circuitpython/tiny2350
  - Each has its own dedicated copy of code.py for the specific microcontroller.
  
* The extra capacity of the Tiny2350 makes some new features
  possible (ONLY IF RUNNING A TINY2350!)
  - There is now more clear feedback of Tune commands being completed.
  - Microcontroller sends a CPU status message periodically.
  - Improved recognition of the code.py version.
  - More commands in the Monitor Communication tool to help
    test and study microcontroller pin status. 
	For development and troubleshooting.
  Use circuitpython/tiny2350/code.py source code.
  The Tiny2350 source code will NOT work on a Tiny2040 (not enough ram).
  
  
ISSUES ADDRESSED ---------------
#36 The Python code does not respect the RPi's locale setting by default.
#39 After building the Hipparcos star catalog, pilomar terminates at target prompt.
#61 Scheduled observations
#79 pilomarfits.py does not apply analoggain
#94 UnicodeEncodeError: 'latin-1' codec cannot encode characters in position 19-89:
#95 Microcontroller seemst to hang and get reset if GOTO az 360degrees is goven.
#96 pilomar_sessions.json list is malformed if history limit reached.
#98 Stellarium constellationship.fab file nolonger available for download.
